Update tutorial-cdi-instantiated-beans.asciidoc (#620)
vaadin/flow-and-components-documentation: documentation/cdi/tutorial-cdi-instantiated-beans.asciidoc

---

> title: Using CDI Beans in Instantiated Components

Reviewer: Not sure if this goes to right direction. The components instantiated by the framework becomes CDI beans when one starts to use Vaadin CDI. Then, when the components are CDI beans, one can "inject" other CDI beans in them and use other CDI features in them.

Author: What about "Using Instantiated Vaadin Components in CDI / Using Vaadin Components in CDI / Using Components in CDI"?

Reviewer: It is Framework indeed. And actually all "components" here are not UI components. We should probably talk about objects. 😥

I think I'd go simply with "CDI beans in Vaadin applications"

Author: Done

order: 2
layout: page
---

= Using CDI Beans in Instantiated Components

> When instantiated by Vaadin Flow, most components become managed beans. This means they are fully-fledged CDI contextual instances: all CDI features are usable when they are queried from the CDI `BeanManager` by the https://vaadin.com/directory/component/vaadin-cdi/[Vaadin CDI] add-on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When https://vaadin.com/directory/component/vaadin-cdi/[Vaadin CDI] is in use, most objects instantiated by framework become managed beans. Framework uses the CDI `BeanManager` to get references to beans. This means they are fully-fledged CDI contextual instances.
```

Trying to make this more compact and correct.

Author: Edited and committed your suggestion.

Reviewer: Looks legit to me 👍

The add-on looks up the CDI bean by type (component class) and `@Any`. 

If the type is not found as a CDI bean - for example, because it is ambiguous or does not have a no-arg public constructor - instantiation falls back to the default Vaadin behavior, and the component is instantiated as a POJO. Dependency injection is performed after instantiation and injects still work, but other CDI features do not. The reason is that the instantiated component is not a contextual instance.

[NOTE]

> `@PreDestroy` or `@Dependent` beans instantiated by Vaadin Flow are not run. Since it is the default context, it is about all beans without an explicit context.

Reviewer: @kumm, what does this mean? Any ideas how to clarify this note?

Reviewer 2: Normally `@PreDestroy` of a Dependent bean is called automatically when the normal scoped bean that it depends on (the normal scoped bean that directly or indirectly `@Inject`s it) is destroyed. It is the concept of the creational context. When the creational context is destroyed `@PreDestroy` is called.

When instantiating it manually there is no such bean, but we get the creational context, and can call destroy on our own. Since we can't determine when to call destroy ( for example calling it on detach would cause problems on re-attach ), we don't call destroy, even we don't store the reference of the creational context.

Reviewer 2: Maybe something like this: "It is strictly a dependent object of some other object. Since the other object is unknown when instantiating it, it's `@PreDestroy` lifecycle event is undefined. Please refer to lifecycle of the `@Dependent` scope". ( like https://docs.jboss.org/weld/reference/latest/en-US/html/scopescontexts.html#_the_dependent_pseudo_scope)

Reviewer 3: Still not very clear. How about something like `Methods annotated with @PreDestroy in Dependent beans instantiated by the framework are not run.` and leaving out the second phrase? @mstahv @kumm

Reviewer 2: It's ok, that's what happens.

Author: - Changed the note in Using CDI Beans in Instantiated Components to read "Methods annotated with `@PreDestroy` in `Dependent` beans instantiated by the framework are not run."
